Hi!! How
are you!
I'm Moro. Today I want to give you some tips to play live
I realize that some of you may be newby playing live
and some of the tips I'm going to give you may be usefull for you
so you can avoid trubles when you play live.
Ok. The first tip I can give you when you are going to play live...
...is about a few days before.
I recommend you to change the guitar strings one or two days before your gig.
Because it can happen too many things...
If your strings have months.
and I know people that have years with the same strings.
Strings have tha bad habit to breack when you are playing live.
I tell you from experience
In my first concerts It happened a lot of times that my strings broke playing live.
It happened several times.
Then I learned that I have to play always with New Strings.
Obviously, if you play often with your band. One or two times a weekend or more...
It wouldn't be required you to replace your strings every time you play, because your strings will last some time.
But if you play one or two times a month
change your strings often so you are ensured.
That's one of the tips.
Next Tip.
The Concert Day...
It's important that you check your guitar tuning before the performance...
At least a while before.
Also when you have your set ready for your performance
Because, it use to happen, when you Carrie your stuff...
Your guitar gets out of tune.
Or it can happen when you have an outside concert
In a public space
The instrument, that you brought tuned inside the case, it can happen that it gets out of tune because of temperature changes.
So, when you have your set ready to start your performance, it's good that you check again the tuning
Otherwise, you could play your first song out of tune, and it's not good.
There's another thing that is very important before playing live...
Is when you are checking sound.
Sound checking is very important.
And the more important thing is that you make sure that you have good sound return.
Good sound return, not only of your instrument...
that is very important, because you have difficulties to hear your instrument...
...you would have to play from memory...
...and you wouldn't be comfortable.
And it's also important to have good sound return from your band mates instruments
Because you could get lost and it could be difficult to play songs correctly.
So, it's very important when you play live.
And now, this is the most important Tip, I think...
Too many people get nervous when playing live
So, it's very important to relax
There are too many techniques to avoid get nervous when you get on the stage...
But the more important is that you relax and think as if you are playing in a rehearsal.
That's very important.
And talking about rehearsal. It's obvious that you have to make the appropriate quantity of rehearsal sessions for your gig.
Because if you are going to play live and you haven't good rehearsals, all the mistakes that have to happen in the rehearsal will happen live.
And it's obvious that playing live is not the same that play in a rehearsal.
So, that's very important.
It's important that you have the rehearsals required before playing live
Ok. I give you these tips that may be useful for many of you.
I also recommend you to visit my channel if you haven't checked it.
Here you have my Channel Link and the Subscription Link. You can find it below too.
You can Subscribe to my Channel so you are updated when I upload new videos.
I really recommend you to Check my Metal Versions if you haven't checked them. Here you have a link.
I also have Guitar Lessons and too many other stuff that you can find in my Channel.
And I'm going to ask you to visit my friend's channel and Subscribe too.
Ok. See you on my Next Video that is going to be uploaded soon. Greetings to all!!!